Create an RPA Center of Excellence (CoE) - Part 2. Once you've built the skills and capacities you need,
it's time to articulate and effective governance model and launch the initiative.
Creating a good governance process goes a long way.
The sooner into automation journey it gets set up, the better.
Governance takes responsibility for assessing RPA opportunities and prioritizing automation activities.
It provides the guidelines and templates for assessment, design, development and deployment of robots.
It involves assigning roles and accountability and ensures good collaboration and communication between
units.
For larger companies and RPA initiatives, the governance model may look something like this; consisting
of larger parts of the organization and including more stakeholders and anchoring in the organization.
We often say that "pilots seldom fail, but seldom scale".
To have a model like this in place will guaranteed help your organization in achieving its targets and
scale any RPA initiative.
The model consists of three key areas "Operating Strategy", "Operating Model" and "Operating Enablers" with
a total of eight dimensions to consider. For operating strategy,
these are "strategy and vision", "organization" and "governance".
Strategy and vision is all about defining strategy and vision for automation and clarify how the automation
strategy aligns with corporate strategy and how expected benefits will be realized.
Organization is all about defining the optimal organizational structure to best support delivery of
automation capabilities; both in the short term and in the long term.
Governance is all about determining the form of governance, as well as defining decision and committee
structure required to empower the automation team and how to provide organization wide support for the
RPA initiative.
For operating model, the dimensions are "pipeline and benefit model", "delivery model" and "service model".
Pipeline and benefit model is all about defining the approach to opportunity assessment and prioritization,
for example, like we did in step one "Identify, evaluate and prioritize processes"
And it's also about determining the benefit evaluation and realization models.
Delivery model is all about agreeing upon the automation delivery model, including process documentation,
development standards, templates and policies; which are relevant for step two "Describe processes"
and step three "Design, develop and test" processes
in our five step plan. Service model is all about agreeing upon the service delivery model
to support operational processes, including defining, scheduling, monitoring and reporting procedures.
And then we have operating enablers containing the dimensions "people" and "technology". People is all about
defining the roles and responsibilities required to deliver upon the operating strategy and model - For
which part one of creating an RPA Center of Excellence (CoE) is highly relevant.
As well as hiring and training candidates for the Center of Excellence roles. Technology is all about
defining the technological requirements needed to support the operating strategy and model; and defining
a scalable minimum maintenance technological environment to run the RPA rig.
To help you start working on a governance model like this, eight key questions could be asked.
So for operating strategy, you could ask "how does process automation align with current digital strategy?"
RPA may be a driving force behind digital transformation and need anchoring in the overall business
strategy and support from the top management team to succeed.
"What is the optimal organization designed to support delivery of automation capabilities?"
What should your Center of Excellence look like and what roles and responsibilities will be included?
"What does an effective governance structure look like?"
How do we balance requirements for controlling governance with the agility needed to succeed with process
automation. The governance structure should be designed to work effectively with RPA.
For operating model, you could ask, "how are opportunities assessed and the pipeline prioritized?"
Again, I would refer to step one "Identify, evaluate and prioritize processes" from the five step implementation
plan.
"How do we effectively deliver on our automation strategy?"
Who is involved when working on automation candidates?
What are expected from the different participants?
How do we document the work before, under and after the development. An effective delivery model makes
this clear!
"How do we monitor and continuously improve automated processes?"
This is often more resource intensive than expected. A good service model would secure that
the development teams can work on automating new processes while effectively monitoring and being able
to continuously improve existing processes whenever exceptions and change requests occur.
Monitoring and reporting is also a necessity to ensure that benefits are realized.
Some tasks to consider for the development team are already mentioned in step five "Monitoring and Continuous
Improvement" from the five step implementation plan.
And finally, we have some questions for operating enablers.
"Which roles and responsibilities are required to operate efficiently and where in the organization are
these found?"
Lacking competence and experience is one of the largest barriers to implement new technology
like RPA. It requires a transformation and a plan for what competencies are needed, what roles are needed
and what the different roles should be responsible for.
And then we have the final question.
"What does a scalable minimum maintenance technological environment look like?"
Decisions need to be made regarding choice of RPA vendor and technical infrastructure.
For example, do you want a cloud, on-premise or hybrid solution?
Make sure to include IT as early as possible in answering this question.
And if you manage to answer all these questions and the Center of Excellence has been set up - either
as part of a light governance model or a more comprehensive one like the one I just presented - you're
ready to push the "GO"-button and launch your RPA initiative.
Before we end this session, creating a full-scale robotics Center of Excellence and governance model
is not necessarily the first thing you want to do.
Going back to the five step plan, as you might remember, the most important step of such a plan is
to identify the processes that has the highest potential for automation and start any RPA initiative
by automating a couple of high potential processes to show that the technology actually works and is
as effective as expected.
A proof of concept (PoC) is usually a good starting idea for most organizations that want to grasp the benefits
of the technology.